---
title: "10 Years of Themes"
description:
  "An image gallery and reflection of 10 years of themes I've made for
  wavebeem.com"
date: "2024-08-23"
---

Let's take a tour through the last 10 years of themes for this site.

**Note:** Older screenshots have been altered to cover up "legacy" images,
names, and pronouns.

## 2013

Based on the copyright footer, I already had this website since 2010. It was my
my first website at a domain I owned and operated. I think it was hosted via
GitHub pages. It was made as plain HTML files :) I clearly hadn't heard of the
concept of "line height" yet, and it looks a little barren. It's really just a
resume, but it almost looks like technical documentation for an uninteresting
library. This establishes my love for green and my desire to have something a
little softer than stark white.

![](site2013.webp)

**Basic resume&mdash;with two background colors**

## 2014

Welp, I used Bootstrap lol xD Everyone else as at the time, and I probably did
this because I thought it would be good practice or something? Honestly it looks
pretty good even by today's standards, in my opinion. The bluer green looks a
lot nicer, there's a photo to welcome you and humanize me, and I put contact
info front and center. It's a bit dense with all the sections of text and
relying just on heading sizes to differentiate everything, but I was trying!

![](site2014.webp)

**Bootstrap&mdash;It looks like a lot of other sites from this era**

## 2015

I think at this point I switched back to fully custom CSS. This was released the
year after Material Design came out, so you can see I was clearly inspired by
flatness and cards. I guess I wasn't interested in using CSS `box-shadow`, which
was [definitely supported](https://caniuse.com/css-boxshadow) in every browser
at the time. The layout is giving a
[masonry layout](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/native-css-masonry-layout-css-grid/)
vibe, which was probably already a big deal on Pinterest or something at the
time.

The green has shifted even bluer&mdash;maybe too blue.

![](site2015.webp)

**Cards&mdash;It's all about cards now**

## 2016

Wow, did the "mobile first" bug bite me here? The 2015 layout was a bit
overwhelming and dense, but this layout feels incredibly silly and sparse on
desktop! Looks like I tried to bring serif fonts back for a minute, but it's
just so weirdly columnar.

The green looks really nice in this image to me.

![](site2016.webp)

**Mobile first&mdash;a simple landing page**

## 2017

Whoa, I guess I was thinking about Material Design again with the ALL CAPS and
underlined tab bar on top of stark white. It kinda looks like a mobile app. It's
clean, but it's lacking a bit of personality. Clearly I tried to inject some
with the "chat bubble" interface at the top and my fun pixel art self portrait.
I like that I put more content on here and it's more conversational, but it just
doesn't have enough color for me.

![](site2017.webp)

**Material design&mdash;and a pixel art self portrait**

## 2018

Not a huge shift, honestly. I got over the Material Design nonsense and injected
some color back into the page. The massive commissioned portrait is fun! And I'm
sure I was proud of the speech bubble arrow at the time haha.

![](site2018.webp)

**More green&mdash;plus a commissioned portrait**

## 2020

I'm not sure what happened in 2019, maybe I was too busy to update how my site
looked? Maybe I missed a theme update in my Git history when I was browsing it.
Well, we all know what happened in 2020 that made people spend a lot more time
on the computer, but it looks like I made this new theme back in January before
the US was taking any COVID-19 precautions.

Sadly, green is almost entirely absent from this theme. It looks cool, though. I
wish it was my own art, but my recolored Dragon Quest slime was animated and
made the page feel lively. I went hard on serif fonts here, but I think it works
really well given the parchment colors and adventure vibes on the front page.
Also I implemented a reactive pixel art container using CSS which I was super
proud of. This was also my first site to include a dark mode! I had previously
been a massive dark mode nerd when I used Linux, especially while I was in
college, so the whole dark mode trend felt kinda like "well duh" to me at the
time. Fast forward to 2024 when I find them painful to look at on average,
probably in part due to my astigmatism causing light text on a dark background
to look blurry.

So in many ways this feels more me, but like I lost something.

![](site2020.webp)

**[EN4](https://lospec.com/palette-list/en4) color palette&mdash;animated Dragon
Quest Slime &amp; old timey parchment vibe**

## 2021

You can see 2021's design swinging hard back to 2018 with the color palette and
nav bar especially. This time I made a much cooler self portrait, one that I'm
still proud of honestly. You'll notice it's got a nonbinary flag in the
background: this was the year I came out as nonbinary :3

The colors are a bit more relaxed here, and it's (barely) using my
[1bit-ui](https://1bit-ui.wavebeem.com) library.

![](site2021.webp)

**Cards again&mdash;Another self portrait**

## 2022

Minty fresh! Pink still isn't a fave color for me but it works really well here.
I miss having a contrasting nav bar, and the
<a href="https://2bit-ui.wavebeem.com">2bit-ui</a> usage makes it feel a bit
drab with so few overall colors, but this one is finally oozing some
personality.

![](site2022.webp)

**Mint green &amp; pink&mdash;plus it uses 2bit-ui**

## 2023

This rich purple background feels _so cool_ to me still! I made it specifically
to make the neon green pop. You can see from my neon green hair that I was
starting to play with my personal aesthetic too.

The switch to dark mode let the colors be a bit more fun, and I made the nav bar
stand out just a bit.

My favorite part is the new logo font! It's Ultra Hi-Gloss by Froyo Tam.

![](site2023.webp)

**Dark purple and lime&mdash;and my matching hair!**

## 2024 part 1

Eventually I made my third CSS UI library,
<a href="https://candy.wavebeem.com">candy.css</a>. I felt inspired to update my
home page to use it.

The color scheme is actually inspired by a Destiny 2 shader from Gambit, the
game mode run by everyone's favorite weird uncle, The Drifter (voice by the
lovely Todd Haberkorn).

I love the idea of this page. The textures feel super cool, and I love all the
greens. But the lime green barely stands out against an all green background.
And my least favorite part is that it's just so _boxed in_. The concave cards
look really cool, but having the whole page in a little container like that
honestly feels suffocating!

![](site2024a.webp)

**Dark green and lime&mdash;featuring my [candy.css](https://candy.wavebeem.com)
library**

## 2024 part 2

I came up with a fun new "card" style to make the content less boxy, but I
doubled down on page boxes by putting everything in a literal Windows
Vista-style frame. It looked really cool, at least on desktop. But the stark
white mixed with gray was really killing the vibe for me.

The nav bar kinda made me feel like the Wii UI just a little bit, which even
though I never owned a Wii, is quite nostalgic to me.

![](site2024b.webp)

**Windows Vista meets Nintendo Wii**

## 2024 part 3

By this point I was feeling absolutely crushed under the weight of multiple
years of using my own CSS libraries for my personal site. The whole point of me
making CSS libraries for myself (besides CSS practice), was so that I could use
them for making smaller sites where I didn't want to get bogged down making a
bunch of UI styles. They still serve that purpose very well. But for my main
site I wanted full creative control to experiment again.

My concept was "lime & lavender sorbet", with the footer conjuring images of a
cute cafe's paper straw. The soft, pillowy cards, the edge-to-edge content, the
thick dotted lines, they're all trying to make the site feel comfy. And then I
added my [netpet](https://netpet.wavebeem.com/) link with the animated image of
netpet itself as a fun decoration to the site.

I'm still really proud of this design, though I've tweaked it since.

![](site2024c.webp)

**Lavender and lime&mdash;fully custom CSS again**

## 2024 part 4

I've been struggling with chronic health issues for the past 9-12 months or so,
including sinus problems and migraines. As part of my treatment, I'm attempting
to limit the amount of blue light I shine at my eyes. So I've been working on
screens with "night light" (orange tint) active. As such, I'm now gravitating
towards themes that are orange, because they match well with the already orange
tint.

Coupled with it being Summer right now, I've just been thinking about Summer
vibes. Believe it or not, I was hugely into going to the beach as a kid, so I
have very fond memories of the beach. Granted this theme is more tropical beach
than Oregon Coast, but I wanted to capture the feeling of summer. Maybe I'll do
more seasonal themes later? Or maybe I'll just keep 24/7 summer online.
Hopefully it makes people smile.

The one thing I've struggled with is the dotted borders at the top. I think they
look _ok_ at best. I like the one on the bottom of the page since it helps cut
off the striped background nicely, but I'm not 100% sure what to do at the top.

I want to play around with adding some kind of stepped gradient effect at some
point, or maybe add a bit more depth to the page. I definitely don't want to go
full [neumorphism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neumorphism) or anything, but I
love a good subtle shadow in a UI :)

![](site2024d.webp)

**Summer theme**
