---
date: "2024-12-14"
title: >-
  Fresh New Green
description: >-
  Exploring the process behind my fresh new green, including a design I
  discarded and the inspiration for my new style.
---

## Goodbye "Slime Mode"

The idea behind "Slime Mode" was to lean in to warm colors I introduced in my
life (I use "Night Mode" 24/7 for warm tinting). Eventually I grew tired of the
warm background, though. It really gave that _sun baked_ feeling I was going
for, but part of the problem was how I couldn't seem to pair it with a green I
liked. Green has been an important color in
[nearly every theme I've made](/blog/2024/10-years-of-themes/), and it was
really hard to make green look good in this theme.

![](thesis.webp)

- **Warm:** The warm background color is friendly

- **Round:** The wavy header and rounded borders soften it

- **Pastel:** The pastel colors bring the cuteness

## Playing with "Cyber Style"

The idea for "Cyber Style" drag a bunch of sliders over to the opposite side. A
more angular font, and lots of sharp edges and angles to match. The almost-white
neutral background and the grayscale image pushes your eyes toward the green
header.

Unfortunately, it comes off feeling more cold than I wanted. I don't think it
represents the roundness of "wavebeem" or the friendliness I want to project.

![](antithesis.webp)

- **Cold:** Green is flanked with gray and grayer

- **Sharp:** Strange shapes on the cards and the oddly satisfying font

- **Bold:** The green at the top really pops, given the almost complete lack of
  any other colors

## Hello "Fresh"

I want to say I thought long and hard and came up with a totally original idea
on how to resolve the gap between my "Slime" and "Cyber" designs, but it was
inspired by something else. More on that in a moment.

![](synthesis.webp)

- **Balanced:** Warm, cool, and neutral elements

- **Round:** Mostly round, but the scalloped top gives just a hint of sharpness

- **Bold:** The fresh green contrast well with pure white

## The inspiration

I'll admit that I was inspired by... Sprite Vanilla Frost. Ever since Sprite
embraced their modern white bottle design with the green label and cap, I've
been in love with it. I really like both the Spiced Cranberry and Vanilla Frost
flavors too. The scalloped background was high on my list before when I played
with the CSS generator and chose the wave design, so that really resonated with
me. And even though gold isn't usually on my list of colors, the champagne
accent color works really well for subtly incorporating warmth into the design
without distracting too much from the green.

![](sprite-vanilla-frost.webp)

**Sprite Vanilla Frost**

## What's next

I want to try my hand at some graphic design and mockups in the future. Even
just looking at these package designs is really exciting to me, but like I've
been saying, I need to try making more things that aren't my website in order to
have more fun with design.
