---
date: "2025-02-04"
title: >-
  Blog Questions Challenge
description: >-
  I've been tagged to answer seven questions about my blog!
---

## You've got mail

My wonderful friend
[Anh](https://anhvn.com/posts/2025/questions-about-the-blog/) tagged me to
participate in the blog questions challenge. Here we go!

## Why did you start blogging in the first place?

The first nine posts on my blog were all about programming, and mostly about
JavaScript.

I like sharing what I'm working on and what I've learned, and I really like
talking about programming.

I've experimented with writing about other topics (including recipes), but
didn't really find my groove with writing about more personal topics (life,
grief) or fun topics (video game reviews) until 2024.

## What platform are you using to manage your blog and why did you choose it? Have you blogged on other platforms before?

I'm using [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)! It's been very stable and reliable,
plus I always have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) set up on every computer.

Previously this blog has used [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/),
[Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), and a handful of other technologies, including an
ill-fated rewrite in [Astro](https://astro.build/), which
[I wrote about](/blog/2024/becoming-an-astro-not/).

The two oldest blog posts on this site,
[Squiggle: a JS language](/blog/2015/squiggle-a-js-language/) and
[JS gotchas with this and new](/blog/2015/js-gotchas-with-this-and-new/) were
originally posted on [Medium](https://medium.com/).

Before this website I had a [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com/about/) blog about
a programming language I made as my senior project for college.

Also, some of my blog posts were written and posted on
[cohost](https://cohost.org/) originally.

## How do you write your posts? For example, in a local editing tool, or in a panel/dashboard thatâ€™s part of your blog?

I primarily write posts as [Markdown](https://commonmark.org/) directly in
[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). I could probably write a
whole post about what I don't like about Markdown, but it gets the job done, and
few other systems are simple and perform syntax highlighting, which turns out to
be one of the harder requirements of my blogging software.

I've used [Hemingway](https://hemingwayapp.com/) on a few posts, but it's pretty
basic, and I think that it had an overall negative effect on my writing. I don't
mind making things simpler, but I became addicted to getting a "perfect score"
in my writing, which then felt like _not my writing_ when I was finished.

I made a script that resizes images and converts them to
[WebP](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp) to make my site load faster,
especially as I start to use more images in my posts. For video clips, I tend to
record them with Windows Game Bar or Steam Game Recording, then trim them with
[LosslessCut](https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut) and compress them with
[Handbrake](https://handbrake.fr/).

## When do you feel most inspired to write?

Whenever inspiration takes hold of me? Total sidestep of an answer. I guess I do
often pull out my laptop in the evening for some writing. Sometimes I sit on the
couch while Ash plays video games, other times I lie in bed with headphones on
listening to music.

## Do you publish immediately after writing, or do you let it simmer a bit as a draft?

I've been getting better about publishing sooner. Perfection is the enemy of
done, and nobody can read my blog posts if they're not published. The return on
investment for editing is pretty minimal in most cases, so I'm trying to do it
less.

Sometimes I put things in the drafts folder first because I don't think I'll
finish them in one sitting, but I worry about the "just let it simmer" and then
it's been in there for months problem. I also use my drafts folder as a
container for ideas I want to blog about, but haven't actually written any
content yet.

## What's your favorite post on your blog?

- [Blog post I cried the most writing](/blog/2024/curry/)

- [Blog post I've linked the most people to](/blog/2018/better-bash-7-tips/)

- [Blog post I'd like more maladjusted weirdos to read](/blog/2023/the-web-wasnt-a-mistake/)

- [Blog post I learned the most writing](/blog/2023/the-web-is-an-app-platform/)

## Any future plans for your blog? Maybe a redesign, a move to another platform, or adding a new feature?

Honestly I hope I'm not going to unwisely try another blogging platform in the
near future. I usually regret it. I've also added many features in the past that
I've removed. Eleventy is very DIY, and most blogging platform features like
tags and stuff just don't seem worth the effort for me.

My main concern is making everything look nice and encouraging myself to
actually put more kinds of stuff on here. My recent minimalist color scheme
redesign was in service of making more weird pages, which I haven't made a ton
of progress on yet, but I'm still going. I'm very happy with the current look,
and would like to keep things in the realm of evolution, not redesign.

If I add a big new feature, I think it would be a theme selector. I love making
themes, and I think it would excite people to pick a theme from a gallery. I've
received many kind words about my [1bit-ui](https://1bit-ui.wavebeem.com/) and
[2bit-ui](https://2bit-ui.wavebeem.com/) sites for allowing that.

In terms of refinement I want to do next, I'd like to continue refining images
on my site. My biggest issue is I want the ability to choose a target "size" for
each image I put on the page. Just scaling it to fit the page width looks really
bad for certain images, especially square and vertical ones.

## Who's next?

I'd love to see responses from [Damien](https://damien.zone/),
[Tati](https://tati.codes/), [Tulip](https://platinumtulip.net/),
[Millie](https://milliesquilly.com/), and
[Tyler](https://blog.atylerrobertson.com/). But no pressure if you don't want
to!
